As we saw before there's a number of ways to do things in javascript and this time.
What I want to do is I want to be able to remove value from the from the array.
Basically I want to have a button that says remove so remove that item completely out of the array.
So what we need for this is we need to actually know where this is within the array.
So whatever the value of the ID is with an array so that we can click that and we're using these IDs
as unique values so we can remove them out.
So now that what's actually going to happen is because I've got multiples of these items in here.
If I click one of these removes that should remove out all of them because we're going to be using it
by id and then these two as well so that give us the ability to kind of clean this up and then have
our output working as it should.
So right now because of previously when we weren't counting the quantity that's where we ended up with
this kind of messy duplication here.
So let's clean that up in this lesson.
And what I want to do is within the options I want to add the ability to simply remove out of value
there.
So we need a container for it and I'm going to use a span so class and will give it a class of remove
and also give it to a class of BT and so we've got our Remove button and I'm going to turn this into
more of a button format with styling.
And I get an add on click attribute and whenever it gets clicked it's going to fire off the function
remove and this function we need to pass some type of value to it.
We can of course pick up the idea if we traverse through the DOM.
But for this instance I think it's just easier just to add this in as a value of the ID that we can
pass.
So let's let's just do that we're going to parse it as an argument here.
So the ID value just passed that through and then X and then close off spanne and then I'm going to
go up to my CSX and I'm going to do some quick updates here so I need to use this and also for Beati
And so you get a button look to it and then I'm going to update the colors so we don't need green and
I can do so for remove.
I'll just do a background color of red.
So let's see how that looks.
So we refresh it.
So there's our remove buttons.
So we click it it's firing off and it's removing and remove is not defined yet.
So that's the next step is to actually pick up and remove those items from our shopping cart.
So we are passing through the ID.
So what I want you to do now is pause the video and using splice from the array remove out a that have
the ID that has been passed in to the function remove.
And I'll show you the solution coming up.
And don't forget as well that you need to update those local storage as well.
And you also need to update.
You need to output the new values of the cart.
So you do need to run output current and you need to add that setting that item within the local storage.
Which means as well that you need to string ify whatever value you've currently got in the shopping
cart.
So take it out take a moment pause the video open up your editor and make that update and I'll show
you the solution coming up.
So we know that we need to have a function called remove.
We're passing through the ID of the item we want to remove from a shopping cart.
So that's just being passed in there the next thing that we know we needs to actually loop through our
shopping cart in order to be able to find which items which items to remove so I can copy some of that
code that I had over there.
Just make it look a little bit better.
Clean that up and we don't actually need this part.
So I got to just have shopping cart.
So next thing that we need to do is we want to check to see if the value of this current shopping carts.
So that's if the ID is equal to ID to equal signs so see if they're equal and if they are then we know
we found the one that we need to remove So let's remove that's let's do variable R.E.M. So this is just
a placeholder shopping cart.
Is the array we want to use the array method splice which allows us to get a value add an index value.
And so again one of the disadvantages of using for each we don't have an index of value associated with
it.
So I'm actually going to update this and I'm going to use the for loop because that will give us our
index value and let's do X equals zero and we're going to loop while x is a sharp current length.
X is less than Shakara length.
And then let's increment X so that that will clean that up and that will actually give us a value of
our index.
So that's all of course we need to update this as well.
So this is no longer that it should be x dot ID so that we need to splice it at index X and we need
to replace one value and let's console log this just to make sure that we're grabbing the right value.
And let's try it.
So now when I click out this we see that we're actually removing it.
And if I refresh it then we still got it because we've still got it within the session storage but we're
actually able to remove out those values we can see that we're removing out both that have the ID 3.
So those are both getting removed out.
We're also removing out that one so that once we're able to remove that one out.
So we're able to splice these values out of our shopping cart.
So now next thing to do is to actually to update our storage or local storage.
And this is the same thing that we did up here where we need to just local storage set item of that
shopping cart.
So now that we've removed it we've done or update we just need to take that new value of shopping cart
and save that.
And then lastly let's run output carts so we can rebuild our cart so we can represent it visually.
So there we go.
So let's try this again.
And now whenever I remove them we see that we're actually removing from the shopping cart and when I
add them back in they're going to add according to quantity.
So we're starting out one and we're increasing the quantity and we're doing whatever the prices.
And that's another thing I just notice that we're not actually putting the cost of it.
So that's another thing that we need to output with.
Whenever we're building it that we need to have a cost that we're expecting to charge and we do have
that value here so let's output it.
So we've got our image we've got our details and we've got our shopping cart.
And so just under there let's add in the cost
and now we know that we can use that money function to actually output it in money format.
So let's do that let's add that in and let's refresh the page so there we go.
So we've got the cost and we don't need that other dollar sign because are doing that within the function.
So there we go so we've got all of those costs are there as well.
And this is another thing that because I've updated the cost so now it's gone 2 cents.
So if I want to make ad dollars I've got to add in a few extra zeroes so that now that my format is
this one I refresh.
So now it's proper once again.
So we can see that we're updating these values.
And I still need to make an update in the cart.
So this way it's where we're counting cents instead of counting dollars.
And I do need to remove that because that was from before.
So again whatever was in that storage gets stored and then that's why we need to clean that up all the
time.
So what I want you to do now is pause the video.
Open up your editor and build it complete out that shopping cart.
You can also make it look a lot better.
I know I've been running through really quick and I haven't done a lot of the styling.
And you can also add in additional items and information for each item as well to be displayed out here
so you can add in images.
You can update the details and and more as much as you want within your output here.
So go ahead and try that eight's and update the shopping cart to accommodate more details from your
javascript object.
And additionally because we've built the out to be dynamic we can also take the quantities and we can
update those as well so it doesn't necessarily mean that we're updating by one we could update those
quantities by any number and we could have an input field here that has a quantity instead of one it
could be whatever number.
So you can go out and you can add that in as well and then picking up the value quantity of that input
field.
So go ahead and try that out and make some updates to the shopping cart to improve its functionality.